# Clean Architecture

How often is our code "Durable", "Usable" & "Beautiful"?

Hopefully it will be usable for at least some time after writing, but how
hard is it to maintain, and how much maintenance effort is actually needed
with that code? (Beauty & Durability respectively).


Commonly the Architecture of your work is pre-determined by the frameworks
you choose to use.

### What is clean?
You should be able to know the following intuitively:
- Where things are
- Why components are there
- What something is

There's a book by the talk speaker thats available for free: http://bit.ly/getpycabook

Clean Architecture is based on a classical, layered approach to organising software.

The base rule of thumb, is that any component in a given layer, may only see
components from its current layer, and layers within that layer (i.e. closer
to the circle), they are NOT allowed to see anything from a higher layer, but
must expose an interface for the upper layer to interact with.

### Entities
The simplest layer, commonly includes basic models or data structures.
Typically these will not be integrated with database ORM models etc.

### Use Cases
A use case is a container of business logic, i.e. the reason(s) behind why
the software exists.  For example, Google provides web indexing & search.

### External Systems
Interestinly, a place to store data, i.e. a repository, or a database, should
be considered an external system, since its not part of our code
specifically.

How should we handle such a case? Our use cases may need access to an
external system, and for this it MUST go via an interface, rather than
calling logic directly.

### Gateways
A classic example of a gateway would be something like an ORM library, which
provides an interface to the database for the rest of the program to use.

### Key points
Using clean Architecture makes it very simple to create tests for all the
systems, driven primarily by the use of protocols/interfaces, and dependency
inversion.

Of interesting note is simple data structures should be sent inwards, but
entities can be sent outwards.
___
Links:
- [[python]]
- https://github.com/python-leap/book
- https://bit.ly/getpycabook
- https://www.cosmicpython.com/

Slides:
- https://speakerdeck.com/lgiordani

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[python]: python "Python"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"